So, now, sometimes what we care about is
not the value that we have itself, but
the opposite of that value.
So, for example, if someone is around
you is false, then we might say,
as Destiny's Child once did
if no one is around you, so
if it is not true that someone is
around you, then you should say,
baby, I love you, as we were told
in the epic song, Say My Name.
So, sometimes we care about
the opposite of the value,
and the exclamation point,
which is the logical NOT operator,
gives us the opposite of a Boolean value.
Or the opposite of the truthiness
of a another type of value.
Cool, so we can use NOT to test
the opposite of something.
And sometimes we care about
more than one value and
we care about their kind of
the truthiness of both of them.
So, for example,
if you're happy and you know it,
that's when you should clap your hands.
And so, to care about more than one value,
we have some of these logical operators.
So, NOT the NOT operator, the exclamation
point is a logical operator too,
it operates on one value, or
we could say it's a unary operator,
you might see that word around.
And then this double and sign,
this double ampersand that is
another operator that is what
we call a binary operator.
Binary logical operator operates on two
values, and so these type of logical
operators, let us make two boolean
values become one boolean value.
The entire expression takes two
values looks at their truthiness and
evaluates to true or false.
So it's a little bit more
complicated than that but
we can think of it that way for now.
So logical and
is this double ampersand operator,
and it is only going to be
true if both values are true.
So what we have is a nice little
truth table here just showing if
we have A and B.
That is only going to be
true if both A is true and
B is true if either one of them is false
or both of them are false, then A and
and B, or we usually just say A and
B is gonna be false.
There is a sibling operator to this one,
which I see some folks are nodding.
We know the next thing we're
gonna need is maybe logical,
or exactly and so
in JavaScript that is two of the pipe or
kind of vertical line operator or
it is going to be true
if either one of the values is true,
as long as one or
both of the values is true A or
B is going to be true.
The only time that it's gonna be false,
is if both of those values are false.
So, you can just sort of,
we'll be getting used to these if
you haven't encountered them before.
If you've encountered operators
like this in other languages,
it usually works the same.
And there is also another operator in
JavaScript that it's not a logical
operator to conditional, but
it's a fast way of writing
conditionals and it's what we call, so
we saw NOT is a unary operator it takes
one operand it operates on one thing.
AND and OR are binary operators,
they operate on two things.
And JavaScript has one ternary operator
that operates on three different values.
And what this does it's a very quick
way of writing an if-else statement.
So, in this case, we use a condition
expression same as we've
been doing in our
[INAUDIBLE] if statements.
And then we put a question mark
like saying, is this true?
And after the question mark,
we put a value we want
JavaScript to evaluate to
this whole expression.
Is gonna become the value if
true if the condition is true.
Then we have a colon and that's sort of
like our else keyword and then we have
the value that we want this to become if
it's false, if the condition is false.
So, for example,
let's say I have a forecast variable
that could be sunny or rain or
whatever and I want to know what my mood
is going to be based on the weather.
I can do a line like this.
I can say my mood, I'm going to assign it
to the value of this whole expression,
that is created by this ternary operator.
So JavaScript I want you to evaluate this
whole everything to the right of this
single equal sign here all of this stuff
its gonna evaluate to a single value.
And the way it's going to work is
JavaScript we're gonna ask it with
that question mark,
is this thing true is forecast triple
equals sunny is the forecast sunny?
And if so, then this expression
will evaluate to the string happy,
which is gonna get saved
to my mood variable,
and if not if the forecast is not equal
to sunny then the whole expression
is gonna evaluate to the value sad and
my mood will be sad.
And this is equivalent to doing the same
thing if we were to declare a variable but
not assign it and
then assign it in our if-else block.
So, these are kind of
equivalent statements here.
Cool, so, this ternary operator,
if it pops up a lot in kind of real-world
JavaScript you'll see it all over the
place and so we're not necessarily gonna
spend too much time with it but
it's something that you'll get more and
more familiar with as you continue
adventuring into JavaScript land.